.TH PPQ 1 "29 Sep 1998" "PPS Reference Manual" "PPS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ppq \- queue/printer examination program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppq
[ [\c
.BI \-[qP] queue\c
 [[\c
.BI \-p printer\c
]
[\c
.BI \-u usercode\c
]
[\c
.B \-v\c
]]] |
.RS 6
[\c
.BI \-[qP] queue\c
 [\c
.BI \-p printer\c
]
.B \-V\c
] |
.RE
.RS 6
[[\c
.BI \-P queue\c
]
.B \-b\c
] ]
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ppq
is the client portion of the PPS Printing System which is used to examine
the current status of jobs queued to be printed by the
.BR ppd (8)
print spooling daemon.

.B Ppq
has three modes of use.  It's main purpose is to allow the user to examine the
contents and state of specific queues and printers on the system.  It can also
be used to view the status, descriptions, and charges applicable to any queue
or printer.  Finally, for a limited amount of backward compatibility, there
is a BSD
.BR lpq (1)
mode.

The three modes of operation of
.B ppq
are distinct, in that not all switches accepted can be used in
conjunction with each other.
.SS "Examining Current Queue/Printer Status"
Accepts switches
.B -q\c
,
.B -P\c
,
.B -p\c
,
.B -u
and
.B -v\c
, and displays the current state of the queue and printers selected.
This includes both the activity of the queue and its printers, as well as a
list of jobs waiting in the queue, if any exist.
.SS "Examining Queue/Printer Descriptions and Charges
Accepts switches
.B -q\c
,
.B -P\c
,
.B -p
and
.B -V\c
, and displays a list of the configuration state of the queue specified.
The required switch to enable this mode is
.BR -V .
For the queue, this includes its availability, given description, and any
charges applicable for users printing to it.  A list of all printers attached
to the queue is then given, including their respective availabilities and
descriptions.
.SS "BSD-Compatibility Mode"
Accepts switches
.B -P
and
.B -b\c
, and displays BSD
.BR lpq (1)\c
 like output.  The required switch to enable this mode is
.BR -b .
Queue selection is specified using the
.B -P
argument, as with
.BR lpq (1).
If not specified, the default queue is "lp".  This is
a limited compatibility mode, provided only to satisfy programs which interface
with the print spooling system and which can understand only
.BR lpq (1)
output when examining a queue's status.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Examining Current Queue/Printer Status"
.TP
.BI -[qP] queue
The name of the queue to be examined.  The
.B \-q
switch is the one intended for this argument, but
.B \-P
can be used equivalently, for a more BSD-like interface.
.TP
.BI -p printer
The name of the only printer attached to the specified queue that is to be
examined.  If this argument is given when examining a queue with multiple
printers attached to it, only the single printer specified will be reported.
.TP
.BI -u user
If specified, only jobs which are owned by the user given by this argument
will be reported.
.TP
.BI -v
Turns on verbose output mode.  In verbose mode, the state of inactive printers
is also given.  As well, the absence of waiting jobs in the queue is 
explicitly reported.
.SS "Examining Queue/Printer Descriptions and Charges"
.TP
.BI -[qP] queue
The name of the queue to be examined.  The
.B \-q
switch is the one intended for this argument, but
.B \-P
can also be used equivalently.
.TP
.BI -p printer
If specified, only the description of this printer, attached to the given
queue, will be reported.
.TP
.B -V
This switch causes the queue and printer descriptions to be output, as
opposed to giving the current state of jobs queued or printing.
.SS "BSD-Compatilibity Mode"
.TP
.BI -P queue
Specify a particular queue, otherwise the default "lp" is used.
.TP
.B -b
Enables Berkeley
.BR lpq (1)
output mode.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The Berkeley
.BR lpq (1)
compatibility mode is not fully compatible.  It will only accept the arguements
described in this document.  This is not likely to change, as the compatibility
mode is only included as a crutch for programs which interface with the print
spooler and expect
.BR lpq (1)
output.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Grebenc <paul@ed.brocku.ca>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppr(1), pprm(1), ppd(8)

