.TH PPR 1 "29 Sep 1998" "PPS Reference Manual" "PPS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ppr \- submit a job to be printed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppr
.BI \-[qP] queue
[
.BI \-u usercode
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ppr
is the client portion of the PPS Printing System which is used to submit
jobs to be printed by the
.BR ppd (8)
print spooling daemon.  If there is more than one printer attached to the
queue selected,
.BR ppd (8)
will select the printer on which the job is output.

The
.B ppr
client automatically creates a duplicate of the submitted job into its spool
area.  While this does mean that a file, once submitted can immediately be
deleted, it also means that there must be enough free disk space in the spool
directory for the complete file to be stored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -[qP] queue
The name of the queue to which the job is to be submitted.  The
.B \-q
switch is the one intended for this argument, but
.B \-P
can be used equivalently, for a more BSD-like interface.
.TP
.BI -u user
The name of the user to whom ownership of this job is to be assigned.  This
argument can only be used by root, or by the user under whose id the
.B ppd\c
(8)
daemon runs.  The job will be charged to the account of the specified user,
and logged as printed by that user.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Although
.B ppr
is not intended to duplicate all of the functionality of
.B lpr\c
(1), a few of its features would be desirable.  Two major ones are the
abilities to specify multiple filename arguments, and to accept a job from
stdin if no filename argument is given.  A third might be to allow the option
of not having the entire file duplicated into the spool directory upon
submission.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Grebenc <paul@ed.brocku.ca>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppq(1), pprm(1), ppd(8)

