.TH PPRM 1 "29 Sep 1998" "PPS Reference Manual" "PPS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
pprm \- remove jobs from the print spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pprm
.BI \-[qP] queue
.B -
|
.I "job # ..."\c
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pprm
is the client portion of the PPS Printing System which is used to remove
jobs which have been submitted to the
.BR ppd (8)
print spooling daemon.

Normally, users can only delete the jobs which they themselves have submitted.
The exceptions are root, and members of the PPS operators group.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -[qP] queue
The name of the queue from which the job(s) are to be removed.  The
.B \-q
switch is the one intended for this argument, but
.B \-P
can be used equivalently, for a more BSD-like interface.
.TP
.I job #
Job numbers given as arguments specify which jobs to remove from the queue.
More than one job number may be specified in order to remove multiple jobs
at once. 
.TP
.B -
If a single dash is given in place of a list of jobs to be deleted, then all
jobs which can be removed by the user issuing the command will be removed.
If root or an operator issue this command with the dash, the queue will be
emptied of all waiting jobs.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The major limitation on
.B pprm
is that it cannot remove a job while it is currently being printed.
The only way to remove a printing job is to cancel it at the printer via its
own control panel (ie. the Cancel button on a LaserJet 5 series printer).  The
reason for this limitation is the lack of available documentation on the PML
printer language supported by Hewlett Packard.  Calls to HP in an attempt to
gain access to someone with any information have been quite unsuccessful as
of this point.

Additionally, although
.B pprm
is not intended to duplicate all of the functionality of
.BR lprm (1)\c
, one more of its features would be desirable.  That is the ability to specify
a user argument, so that either root or operator could easily clear the queue
only of all jobs sent by one particular user without having to individually
specify them.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Grebenc <paul@ed.brocku.ca>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppr(1), ppq(1), ppd(8)

